---
toc: false
layout: post
comments: true
description: 
categories: [Philosophical, Businesses]
title: Office is just school for adults
permalink: /the_office/
---

For many, working 9-5 often is considered non-ideal. Instead, wishing to work for themselves or not to work at all.

Some benefits of working at an office that are hard to replicate otherwise are:

## Social Circle
We tend to keep office friendships shallow.

But in a lifetime, we make more friends at the office than from school and college combined.

These include people from many different backgrounds and age groups.

## Learning opportunities
Higher-ups in the office want people to take up more responsibility.

A win-win is when there is something you want to do or learn that can help solve a business problem.

All you have to do is ask!

Unlike school, you can pick and choose a lot of things.
## Experimentation
Office also provides opportunities to experiment. Try new things out.

Of course, these things are planned within a team and for the benefit of all.

Example: Proposing a new product idea.
## Hierarchy
Schools have a hierarchy of authority organized by age: Teachers over the students.

Most offices resist age-wise authority. They tend to favor ideas and a person's past deliveries.

## Time
Unstructured time is hard to manage.

The office provides a well-balanced structure for most.

## Meaning
Work provides meaning.

There is nothing that gives more satisfaction than knowing that customers like your product.