---
description: 
title: ROI of fun
comments: true
categories: [Thoughts]
layout: post
use_math: true
permalink: /fun/
---

{% include note.html content = 'I am not a psychologist. So the upcoming piece is quite unscientific.' %}

{% include alert.html text = 'This essay is still in draft. I decided to publish it so that I feel complelled to finish it.' %}

## Hobbies
Hobbies are weird in the sense that after an initial interest in doing it we start expecting too much from it.

Each next creation becomes a race to be better than the previous one.

Every-time you show something you cooked or something you made... the first reaction from people is... why don't you open a business??

> No! This is something I do for fun...

There is no real ROI! I don't want to be famous or make money with this.

Life requires activities that have no other purpose than the joy that activities itself provides.[^1]

If suddenly there is an expected ROI attached it has a probability of not being fun anymore. Though the **result of having an expected ROI to an hobbie is that the quality and quantity of output increases a lot**.

Hobbies are an active process: The more effort that has been put in the higher is the reward. [^1]

## Books, Media and Games

One of the things that many consider to be waste of time is consumption. Often quotes float around which say something on the lines of: Make your own life so exciting that you don't need to consume anything else.

On one level this may be true but it is a little too extreme.

Is watching Silicon Valley a waste of time? Maybe.
Did I get a boost of coding confidence ever since starting Silicon Valley? Hell yeah! ROI was higher.

Was watching One Piece a waste of time? No. I actually enjoyed it.
Did I get my positivity pumped? Definetely.

Most of consumption only impacts mindset of the consumer and does not result in direct action.
The tricky thing is that we don't know what will get us inspired or changed prespective for the better. If we did knew it already, it would be pretty boring.

Consumption is a passive process: You don't have to actively work at it.

## People
..writing in progress...

***

There is more to life than increasing it's speed.

***

[^1]: Digital Minimalism by Cal Newport