---
toc: false
layout: post
comments: true
description:
categories: [decision-making, personal]
title: You need time to think
permalink: /time-think/
image: /images/employee-ethics.jpg
---

# Knowledge vs Thinking
There is a difference between acquiring knowledge and thinking.

Acquiring Knowlege would including activities like attending lectures, reading books and googling to find solutions.

Thinking would involve looking into yourself for the answers and thinking from the first principles to validate them.

# Balancing Knowledge and Thinking

# Why thinking is important

## You'll be too caught up in the specifics
By acquiring knowledge one can only remember "terms" [^1] but they won't know how to use it.

Our gadgets are such that they remove any need for thinking. We can find all information in minutes.

The problem this leads to is that we always search for a ready-made answer instead of thinking about ourselves.

I have seen this during development a lot where some developers would search open-source solutions or paid solution when in reality creating solution was much easier to just code yourself.

This happens because of not thinking.

If you want to be the best at something, you can get half the way by copying/absorbing other people's methods.

But soon you'll come to a point where YouTube videos, random advice and even books won't help as much. You have to chart your own course.

## Rational Opinions

Individuals search for truth. Groups search for consensus. Of course, you cannot deny logical facts.

## Losing What You Don't Use
What you don't use you lose.

Note Taking is also problematic. One should only write what they think about a topic if something is new and carefully thought through.

## Learning happens when you compare and contrast.

## Boredom: Spark of Creativity
We resist boredom. Boredom is important as it sparks creativity.

## Thinking is powerful

Your problems get solved when you think.

Clear thinking allows you to explain easily

If you can think and articulate, you are powerful. You can influence people. People give you money. Ask for your advice.

## What you know is not true.

In statistics, there is a thing called hypothesis testing. The goal of it is not to accept a hypothesis. To goal is to perform tests to reject the hypothesis. The hypothesis is never “accepted.

[^1]: Elon Musk on MBAs