---
layout: post
comments: true
description:
categories: [product-development, testing]
last_modified_at: 2022-05-23T20:52:08.052481
last-modified-purpose:
permalink: /bdd-2/
title: Behavior Driven Development - BDD
---

Like any product development, the primary task is to solve a user’s problem. So you should start with the user's problem and discuss how it could be solved.

This might lead to interesting approaches that could help.

Typically it’s not the best to bring people in a group to “brainstorm” because it mostly leads to one or two people dominating the conversation. It’s best to ask everyone to think about 3 points. And then go in round robin fashion discussing each.

Once the problem is defined well and some solutions are agreed upon, one may start with defining features. Though typically, it’s better to validate the potential business and the solution before setting foot further.

Once the solution is finalised, you can start defining specifications.

The specifications is a document which describes what features are to be built exactly.

This would be a single source of direction. If something is in the spec file, it has to be built that way. If it's not in the spec file, it should not be built.

The spec file keeps the entire organisation in sync. 

- The product team uses it to finalise features.
- The development team used to know what to work on.
- The QA team used to build tests around those features.
- The marketing team uses it to decide how to best market.
- The documentation team uses it to make documentations.
- The design team uses it to design the product.
- A new member of any team uses it to learn about the product.

Without a specification file, everyone is confused. No one person can know everything. And even if he does it creates a bottleneck and a single point of failure if the person decides to leave the organisation.

Since the spec file keeps so many people in sync, details for those specific teams should also be mentioned.

Creation of specification is a collaborative process, involving different teams. Specially Product, Development and QA. also known as the three amigos.

However, in reality it’s best not to start with collaboration, it’s best for a single person of the product team to write down specification files.

This is because he/she knows the business better than others and typically has good communication. It’s likely not the best way to test the English skills of a developer or a tester ;). 

A product person would likely write in simple business terms that are understandable to all stakeholders. And since he/she understands best, the initial draft spec file would be out faster.

After that, the 3 Amigos can be followed to get better clarification and add more details.

A problem someone writing the spec file can face is too many branches. The team collaborates and discovers 10 different potential paths. It’s best to not travel all the paths.

Though the business and solution would have been validated, the real validation happens when the user starts using the product. Therefore we should limit the number of features, and for that it’s best not to even write details of features we think are possible or good to have. #focus

The modern way of maintaining spec files is by using feature files like Gherkin.

Gherkin provides a way to bridge the gap between what’s in the spec file and what has actually been developed. This is done by writing automated tests. If the test passes, we know the feature has been developed and is working.

This also leads us to the point of how to write better specifications. The standard practice is this, described by examples. An example is how a user would interact with the system we have built. Examples solve ambiguity. The keyword scenario is example.
For example:	


Rather than writing, a file upto 25 MB can be uploaded. 

We can write as example:

**Scenario**: Disallow upload of file greater than 25 MB
**Given** I am at file management page
**When** I upload a 26 MB file
**Then** the upload should fail
**And** should not be visible in files list

**Scenario**: Allow upload of file less than equal to 25 MB
**Given** I am at file management place
**When** I upload a 25 MB file
**Then** the file should be uploaded
**And** visible within files list

Therefore in the above case, two examples/scenarios were generated, the success and failure.

There are many other tips that can make scenarios cleaner and specific. The cleaner and more specific the scenarios are, the easier it will be for everyone to collaborate and build better products.

This whole journey encompasses BDD. BDD isn’t as specific as Test Driven Development. The scope of BDD is much much larger and emposes the whole product lifecycle from defining problems, validating to development and everything in between.
