---
layout: post
comments: true
description: Enforce custom-clean coding standards
categories: [clean-code, testing]
last_modified_at: 2022-08-20T20:52:08.052481
last-modified-purpose: added details about how I implement ArchUnit tests
permalink: /arch-unit/
title: Java Architecture Testing with ArchUnit
---

# Reason for Architecture Testing

Once size of codebase increases, it becomes harder and harder to manage a lot of little things. This is specially true when multiple people are working on it.

For example, if you are having a @Entity and want to ensure all of it have certain javax validation whenever someone creates a new @Entity.

It may happen that someone who is working on the code base in future does not know about a certain principle to follow.

For such cases, Architecture Testing is idea.

# ArchUnit

ArchUnit provides Architecture Testing for Java and ensure design principles and standards are followed.

ArchUnit work well with JUnit.

# Example

If you want to ensure all String fields for Request Objects have @Size annotation, you could write it with ArchUnit.

```java
    fields().that().haveRawType(String.class)
    .should()
    .beAnnotatedWith(Size.class)
```

Since I have started using Arch Unit, the quality of code has improved by a huge margin.

# Implement ArchUnit as TDD for Architecture

The work of an architect now expands and can live long after the architect is gone from the project.

Since every architectural decision is written as a test.

I try to implement this the same way.

For example, I want all tests to be really fast. [I had written an article about it](spring-boot-junit-faster/). And one of the ways is that it requires avoiding `@DirtiesContext` in Spring Boot. And forcing the developer to choose between parallel execution and non-parallel execution.

I can share it with the team and hope everyone follows it. 

But we developers have too many things on our plate, and we juggle a lot. And mostly, it's the code reviewer who'll asses these decisions.

So, I instead write these are ArchTests.

Also, ArchTests can be thought of as TDD. Before starting, the architect decides how everything should look and grow. 

# Formatting ArchUnit Tests

I like the [method/when/then](/method-when-should) format. I have a format that makes it easier to write arch unit tests.

classes/methods/fields
- that: have
- should