---
toc: true
layout: post
comments: true
description: 
categories: [draft, Collection of Thoughts, For Future Me]
title: Reading
permalink: /read/
---

Reading is the nourishment that lets you do interesting work [^1]

Reading let's you download dense information into your brain fast.

And reading is fun! More fun than many TV shows after a certain point.

Books are higher quality because they go through a lot of "processes". Other mediums do not.
Draft->Editors->Reviews->Publisher.

## Habit
Keeping distraction away while reading helps.

For start, read anything. Even a page better than no page.

Reading slowly is okay. You may finish the book in 3 months. Not a big deal.

## New words

If you don't know a word in book. Learn it right there and there. If you don't you are just approximating what the author says.

If you are going to read a series of 📚 then learn each new word. The same word will he used later.

## Selecting books to read
Be comfortable reading with a wide range of topics. Anything or fiction/non-fiction.

Reading from different categories is easy way to broaden your perspective.

Always be reading atleast 2 books, a fiction and a non-fiction.
- Non-fiction: Make your more informed and put things into action.
- Fiction: Makes you less boring and counteracts the overthinking created by non-fiction.

Don't buy non-fiction books that have just been released. Let the reviews come in.

If right book is selected, it is worth paying the price.

## Reasoning

Don't agree with everything you read. Authors are humans too. [^3]

Put yourself in the shoes of the author and try to reason through his conclusions.

You want to internalize the author's thinking so that you can see the problem from his point of view. [^1]

Reading books which provide counter argument to your thought or to a book you have read is also interesting.

## Speed Reading

If you are speed reading, it is probably not worth reading. [^1]

Reading speed increases naturally as you get into a habit of reading regularly.

[^1]: Naval
[^2]: Jordan Peterson
[^3]: James Clear