---
toc: false
layout: post
comments: true
description: Environment Setup
categories: [draft]
title: DevOps
permalink: /devops/
# image: https://vialogue.files.wordpress.com/2017/04/sapiens.jpg
---
DevOps beginner things



Teams and culture



Best practices



Tools



Metrics for productivity

The goal of DevOps is to increase developer productivity.



## Continous Integration

- CI is not just running tests on merge.
- CI means that you avoid merge conflicts by essentially always merging code quickly with the main branch.
- To make CI easier and sustainable, you enable automatic testing.
- This also means that often times you need to be okay with having unfinished code in your repository.
- You can hide this code from the user using Flags or not showing it on UI or other ways.

## Testing

Organizations whose focus is on Code Coverage reduce production error by approx 60%.

At Google 10% of their Code Coverage increased when they started focusing on per-commit-coverage. A new code would not be committed until the code coverage is done.

At facebook, if a new bug pops up, a new test case is written for it.

## Infrastructure as Code

Infrastructure as Code allows you to write down a replicatable script of hardware features you will use.

A popular tool is Terraform.

## Automated DB Deployment

Like infrastructure as code, DB schemas can be managed from replicatable scripts with as low manual intervension as possible.

Some tools like Liquibase allow writing in XML format. The same XML can be used to produced and generate table in different databases.