---
toc: false
layout: post
comments: true
description:
categories: [decision-making]
title: You need time to think
permalink: /time-think/
image: /images/employee-ethics.jpg
---

If you want to be best at something, you can get half the way by copying/absorbing other people's methods.

But soon you'll come to a point where YouTube videos and random advices won't help as much. You have to chart your own course.

## Knowledge vs Thinking

There is a difference between acquiring knowledge and thinking.

Aquiring Knowlege is like attending lectures, reading books and googling to find solutions.

Thinking involves looking into yourself for the answers and thinking from first principles.

Thinking means you’ll question things from the first principles. To see if they are valid or not.

Then you scrutinize it.

Learning happens when you compare and contrast.

## Why Priortize Thinking

By aquiring knowledge one can only remember "terms" [^1] but they won't know how to use it.

Our gadgets are such that they remove any need for thinking. We can find all information in minutes.

The problem this leads to is that we always search for a ready made answer instead of thinking ourself.

I have seen this during development a lot where some developers would search open source solutions or paid solution when in reality creating solution was much easier to just code yourself.

This happens because of not thinking.

## Rational Opinions

Individuals search for truth. Groups search for concensor. Of course you cannot deny logical facts.

## Losing What You Don't Use
What you dont use you lose.

Note talking is also probablatic. One should only write what they think about a topic if something is new and carefully thought through.


## Boredom: Spark of Creativity
We resist boredom. Boredom is important as it sparks creativity.


## Thinking is powerful

Your problems get solved when you think.

Clear thinking allows you to explain easily


If you can think and articulate, you are powerful. You can influence people. People give you money. Ask for your advice.

## What you know is not true.

In statistics there is a thing called hypothesis testing. The goal of it is not to accept the a hypothesis. To goal is to perform tests to reject the hypothesis. The hypothesis is never “accepted.

[^1]: Elon Musk on MBAs