---
layout: post
comments: true
description:
categories: [testing, software-engineering, product-development]
last_modified_at: 2022-05-10T20:52:08.052481
last-modified-purpose:
permalink: /writing-better-specs/
title: Thoughts and Notes on writing better software specifications and BDD
---

# What is BDD? Why it is needed?

BDD stands for Behavior Driven Development.

In BDD, we write specs for the features we want to develop. This serves as a contract between developer and other stake holders.

To be more precise, these specs are executable specs. Meaning there can be tests written for them to verify if a feature is working as expected.

BDD doesn't always need to be end to end flows but it is most commonly that.

# Where does BDD fit in?

A common way to use BDD is to create specs before starting any development and even before creating a user story.

This is usually done via: 3 Amigos methodology.

3 Amigos is a ceremony that involve the following to come up with specs from different point of views:

1. Development Team
2. Product Team
3. QA Team 

# How to write good BDD specs?

Some principles of writing good BDD tests are similar to that of normal tests.

## Aim for single assertions (Single "Then") [^1]

Having multiple Then blocks means your tests are likely doing too much.

## Use data that replicates real work [^1]

For example, for a stackoverflow like service instead of 
- When user asks the question "Testing data"

use

- When user asks the questions "How to fix null pointer in Java?"

The later is much closer to real usage.

## Use business language [^1]

Instead of expressing selenium style description, use business language.

## Express Intent [^1]

The "Then" part of the spec usually can express what the intend with the spec is.


[^1]: [Writing Better BDD Scenarios](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=awwFfCYoGFQ)
